[Music]
your car the heating system in your
house your gas stove
most of the energy you use comes from
fossil fuels which present a couple of
problems first there are limited
supplies of fossil fuels so the more we
use the less we've got and second the
use of fossil fuels is the main cause of
climate change because it releases large
amounts of carbon dioxide into the
atmosphere
vile Phil's come from natural renewable
sources like plants so they have the
potential to reduce our reliance on
those limited supply fossil fuels and
reduce the risk of climate change both
biofuels today are made from corn grain
that is fermented into ethanol but we
have a limited supply of this corn so
it's not a solution to the limited
supply part of the quandary it also
takes a lot of resources to grow corn
grain strike to a potential solution
using cellulose instead of corn grain to
make ethanol cellulose is far more
abundant than corn grain and takes less
energy to produce in fact it's the most
abundant organic molecule on the planet
cellulose is the main ingredient found
in a plant cell wall plants generate
cellulose from water and carbon dioxide
during photosynthesis so whereas using
false afield produce carbon dioxide
using cellulose based ethanol might help
remove carbon dioxide from the
atmosphere the main obstacle is that the
cellulose molecule a long connected
chain of glucose sugar protected by a
tough molecular sheath is difficult to
break apart creating cellulose based
ethanol means first unwrapping their
protective sheath and then chopping up
the cellulose into its individual
glucose molecule only once we have
unpacked each glucose molecule can we
begin fermentation but some
microorganisms like bacteria or fungi
break down cellulose for energy all the
time for example dairy cows eat foods
like hay or alfalfa which are full of
cellulose microbes that live in their
stomachs produce an enzyme called
cellulase which breaks apart the
cellulose molecules so that the cow can
use what's left for energy researchers
are now studying these kinds of
microorganisms in the hopes of finding
better ways to break down cellulose so
we can use it for our own energy needs
the solution they think lies in finding
microbes in nature that can produce the
kinds of cellulose enzymes that we need
this process of searching for species in
nature that can produce valuable
products is called bioprospecting
to test whether or not a sample of
microbes can break down cellulose
effectively researchers first grow the
microbe in a test tube then they add a
source of cellulose as the sole form of
energy if the micro can't produce
cellulase and break down cellulose the
test tube will remain unchanged but if
the micro produces the enzymes we are
looking for it will be able to break
down cellulose use it for energy and
thrive in its test tube environment if
our microbial sample can break down the
cellulose in the test tube there is a
chance we can use it to create a
renewable and sustainable source of fuel
for our cars from cellulose
you